Bylaws
of
ODDFELLOWS’ UNION OF VICTORIA BRITISH COLUMBIA (the "Society")
Part 1 — Definitions and Interpretation
Definitions
1.1 In these Bylaws, unless the context otherwise requires:
"Act" means the Societies Act of British Columbia as amended from time to time;
"Board" means the directors of the Society;
"Bylaws" means these Bylaws as altered from time to time.
“Directors” means the directors of the Union for the time being;
“Individual Member” means a member of the Union of the class of Individual Members;
“Lodge” or “Lodges” means a member or members of the class of Lodges;
“Member” or “Members” means a member or member of the class of Individual
Members;
“Officer” or “Officers” means the director appointed or elected to the role of chair,
secretary, treasurer, or trustee.
“Premises” means the land and buildings owned by the Union and, if applicable, the
fixtures and chattels therein;
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Union for the time being;
“Union” means the ODDFELLOWS UNION OF VICTORIA, BRITISH COLUMBIA
Definitions in Act apply
1.2 The definitions in the Act apply to these Bylaws.
Conflict with Act or regulations
1.3 If there is a conflict between these Bylaws and the Act or the regulations under the
Act, the Act or the regulations, as the case may be, prevail.
Part 2 — Members
Classes of membership
2.1 There are two classes of membership in the Society:
Individual Members and Lodge Members, and the Society will maintain a register of
each class of members. The Lodges of the Society are:
(a) Victoria Lodge, No. 1, Independent Order of Oddfellows,
(b) Columbia Lodge, No. 2, Independent Order of Oddfellows,
(c) Bastion Lodge, No. 4, Independent Order of Oddfellows,
and such other Lodges as may be added from time to time under these bylaws, who have
not ceased to be Lodges.
Application for Lodg Membereship
2.2 To become a Lodge Member of this society, a prospective Lodge Member must:
(a) be a society in good standing registered under the Act and charted Oddfellows
lodge under good standing with the Grand Lodge of BC;
(b) be in continuous operation for at least 36 months;
(c) have at least 40 active members in good standing;
(d) be of sound financial standing; and
(e) have their admission supported by a unanimous resolution of Lodge Members
existing at the time.
Application for individual membership
2.3 Persons in good standing within their Lodges who are Lodge Members are de
facto Individual Members.
Ceasing to be a member
2.4 A Lodge shall cease to be a Lodge Member:
(a) by delivering to the Secretary a certified copy of a special resolution of its
members to resign its membership in the Union; or
(b) upon its dissolution, winding-up, or otherwise ceasing to be a society registered
under the Act.
2.5 An Individual Member shall cease to be a member of the Society:
(a) by ceasing to be a member of one of the Lodges;
(b) on the Lodge (or Lodges) in which that Individual Member is a member ceasing
to be a Lodge Member (or Lodge Members) of the Union;
(c) by delivering their resignation in writing to the Secretary or by mailing
or delivering it to the address of the Society;
(d) upon the death of the Individual Member; or
(e) on being expelled.
1
Duties of members
2.6 Every member must uphold the constitution of the Society and must comply with
these Bylaws and:
(a) the Individual Members shall be members of each of the Lodges in good
standing with their respective Lodges;
(b) the Lodge will from time to time and at least once per year submit up to-date
membership registers to the Secretary to allow the Union to update its register
of Individual Members;
(c) upon a change in membership status, including admission or expulsion of a
member of a Lodge, the affected Lodge will forward an updated membership
register or a corrective memorandum to the Secretary; and
(d) if an error in the register of Individual Members or a discrepancy between the
registry entry for an Individual Member and the register of members of the
Lodge for that Individual Member is identified, the Lodge and the Union will
cooperate to rectify that error or discrepancy.
Amount of membership dues
2.7 The amount of the first annual membership dues shall be determined by the
directors and after that the annual membership dues shall be determined at the annual
general meeting of the Union.
2.8 The amount of membership dues owing by the Lodge Members is set to $0.00.
Member not in good standing
2.9 A member is not in good standing if the member is not in good standing with their
Lodge.
(a) Lodge Secretaries from the three member lodges must notify of any changes to
member standing.
Member not in good standing may not vote
2.10 A voting member who is not in good standing
(a) may not vote at a general meeting; and
(b) is deemed not to be a voting member for the purpose of consenting to a
resolution of the voting members.
.
2
Expulsion of an Individual Member
2.11 A member may be expelled from the Union by a special resolution passed at a
general meeting and:
(a) the notice of special resolution for expulsion shall be accompanied by a brief
statement of the reason or reasons for the proposed expulsion;
(b) the person who is the subject of the proposed resolution for expulsion shall be
given an opportunity to be heard at the general meeting before the special
resolution is put to a vote; and
(c) if the person who is the subject of the proposed resolution for expulsion is a
Lodge; the resolution must be supported by each of the other Lodges.
Benefits of membership
2.12 All members will receive the following benefits of membership:
(a) access to the Premises under the policies and rules of the Union and the Lodges;
and
(b) opportunities for friendship between members of all Lodges of the Union.
Part 3 — General Meetings of Members
Time and place of general meeting
3.1 The general annual meeting of the Society shall be held in October, on such date as
may be decided at the meeting immediately preceding such date.
Ordinary business at general meeting
3.2 At a general meeting, the following business is ordinary business:
(a)adoption of rules of order;
(b)consideration of any financial statements of the Union presented to the meeting;
(c)consideration of the reports, if any, of the directors or auditor;
(d)election or appointment of directors;
(e)appointment of an auditor, if any;
(f)business arising out of a report of the directors not requiring the passing of a
special resolution.
Notice of special business
3.3 A notice of a general meeting must state the nature of any business, other than
ordinary business, to be transacted at the meeting in sufficient detail to permit a
3
member receiving the notice to form a reasoned judgment concerning that business.
Chair of general meeting
3.4 The following individual is entitled to preside as the chair of a general meeting:
(a)the individual, if any, appointed by the Board to preside as the chair;
(b)if the Board has not appointed an individual to preside as the chair or the
individual appointed by the Board is unable to preside as the chair,
(i)the chair,
(ii)the vice-chair, if the chair is unable to preside as the chair, or
(iii)one of the other directors in attendance at the meeting, if both the
chair and vice-chair are unable to preside as the chair.
Alternate chair of general meeting
3.5 If there is no individual entitled under these Bylaws who is able to preside as the
chair of a general meeting within 15 minutes from the time set for holding the meeting,
the voting members who are in attendance must elect an individual in attendance at the
meeting to preside as the chair.
Quorum required
3.6 Business, other than the election of the chair of the meeting and the adjournment or
termination of the meeting, must not be transacted at a general meeting unless a
quorum of voting members is in attendance.
Quorum for general meetings
3.7 The quorum for the transaction of business at a general meeting is 20 members or a
greater number that the members may determine at a general meeting.
Lack of quorum at commencement of meeting
3.8 If, within 30 minutes from the time set for holding a general meeting, a quorum of
voting members is not in attendance,
(a)in the case of a meeting convened on the requisition of members, the
meeting is terminated, and
(b)in any other case, the meeting stands adjourned to the same day in
the next week, at the same time and and, if applicable, place, and if, at
the continuation of the adjourned meeting, a quorum is not in
attendance within 30 minutes from the time set for holding the
continuation of the adjourned meeting, the voting members who are in
attendance constitutes a quorum for that meeting.
4
If quorum ceases to be in attendance
3.9 If, at any time during a general meeting, there ceases to be a quorum of voting
members in attendance, business then in progress must be suspended until there is a
quorum in attendance or until the meeting is adjourned or terminated.
Adjournments by chair
3.10 The chair of a general meeting may, or, if so directed by the voting members at the
meeting, must, adjourn the meeting from time to time and, if applicable, from place to
place, but no business may be transacted at the continuation of the adjourned meeting
other than business left unfinished at the adjourned meeting.
Notice of continuation of adjourned general meeting
3.11 It is not necessary to give notice of a continuation of an adjourned general meeting
or of the business to be transacted at a continuation of an adjourned general meeting
except that, when a general meeting is adjourned for 30 days or more, notice of the
continuation of the adjourned meeting must be given.
Order of business at general meeting
3.12 The order of business at a general meeting is as follows:
(a)elect an individual to chair the meeting, if necessary;
(b)determine that there is a quorum;
(c)approve the agenda;
(d)approve the minutes from the last general meeting;
(e)deal with unfinished business from the last general meeting;
(f)if the meeting is an annual general meeting,
(i)receive the directors' report on the financial statements of the Union for
the previous financial year, and the auditor's report, if any, on those
statements,
(ii)receive any other reports of directors' activities and decisions since the
previous annual general meeting, and
(iii)elect or appoint directors, and
(iv)appoint an auditor, if any;
(g)deal with new business, including any matters about which notice has been given
to the members in the notice of meeting;
(h)terminate the meeting.
3.13 Robert’s Rules of Order as revised from time to time shall, where applicable,
5
supplement these bylaws in proceedings at meetings.
Methods of voting
3.14 At a general meeting, voting must be by a show of hands, an oral vote or another
method that adequately discloses the intention of the voting members..
Announcement of result
3.15 The chair of a general meeting must announce the outcome of each vote and that
outcome must be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
Proxy voting not permitted
3.16 Voting by proxy is not permitted.
Matters decided at general meeting by ordinary resolution
3.17 A matter to be decided at a general meeting must be decided by ordinary
resolution unless the matter is required by the Act or these Bylaws to be decided by
special resolution or by another resolution having a higher voting threshold than the
threshold for an ordinary resolution.
Part 4 — Directors
Number of directors on Board
4.1 The Union must have no fewer than 9 directors or a greater number as
determined from time to time at a general meeting.
Election or appointment of directors
4.2 Each Lodge’s voting members shall elect 3 directors with each director holding
office for terms of 3 years, and:
(a) nominations shall be made at the last meeting in May of each lodge;
(b) elections shall be held before the last meeting in June of each lodge;
(c) elections may be by acclamation; otherwise they shall be by ballot;
(d) if no successor is appointed, the person previously elected or appointed
continues to hold office.
Directors may fill casual vacancy on Board
4.3 The Board may, at any time, appoint a member as a director to fill a vacancy that
arises on the Board as a result of the resignation, death or incapacity of a director
during the director's term of office.
4.4 No act or proceeding of the directors is invalid only by reason of there being less than
6
the prescribed number of directors.
Term of appointment of director filling casual vacancy
4.4 A director appointed by the Board to fill a vacancy ceases to be a director at the end
of the unexpired portion of the term of office of the individual whose departure from
office created the vacancy.
Oath
4.5 All directors shall take an oath of office before assuming their position.
Part 5 — Directors' Meetings
Calling directors' meeting
5.1 A directors' meeting may be called by the chair or by any 3 other directors by
writing a request to require the secretary to convene a meeting of the directors, and:
(a) the directors shall meet once in each calendar month on a day and place they think fit;
or (b) the quorum necessary to transact business shall be a majority of the directors then
in office;
Notice of directors' meeting
5.2 At least 2 days' notice of a directors' meeting must be given unless all the directors
agree to a shorter notice period.
Proceedings valid despite omission to give notice
5.3 The accidental omission to give notice of a directors' meeting to a director, or the
non-receipt of a notice by a director, does not invalidate proceedings at the meeting.
Conduct of directors' meetings
5.4 The directors may regulate their meetings and proceedings as they think fit.
Quorum of directors
5.5 The quorum for the transaction of business at a directors' meeting is a majority of
the directors.
Part 6 — Officers
Election or appointment as Officers
6.1 Directors must be elected or appointed to the following Officer positions, and a
director, other than the chair, may hold more than one position:
(a)chair;
7
(b)secretary;
(c)treasurer; and
(d)2 trustees.
The offices of secretary and treasurer may be held by one person, and when a secretary
treasurer holds office, the secretary-treasurer will count as only a single director or
single officer for the purposes of determining the number of directors and board
members.
(a) the directors shall hold Officer elections at the first meeting of the fiscal year.
9
Directors at large
6.2 Directors who are elected or appointed to positions as Officers in addition to the
positions described in these Bylaws are elected or appointed as directors at large.
Role of chair
6.3 The chair is the chief executive officer of the Union and is responsible for
supervising the other directors in the execution of their duties.
Absence of chair from meeting
6.4 In the absence of the chair from a meeting, the secretary shall carry out the
duties of the chair.
Role of secretary
6.5 The secretary is responsible for doing, or making the necessary arrangements for,
the following:
(a)issuing notices of general meetings and directors' meetings;
(b)taking minutes of general meetings and directors' meetings;
(c)keeping the records of the Union in accordance with the Act;
(d)conducting the correspondence of the Union;
(e)filing the annual report of the Union and making any other filings
with the registrar under the Act; and
(f) maintain the register of members.
Absence of secretary from meeting
6.6 In the absence of the secretary from a meeting, the Officers must appoint another
individual to act as secretary at the meeting.
8
Role of treasurer
6.7 The treasurer is responsible for doing, or making the necessary arrangements for,
the following:
(a)receiving and banking monies collected from the members or other sources;
(b)keeping accounting records in respect of the Union's financial transactions;
(c)preparing the Union's financial statements;
(d)making the Union's filings respecting taxes.
Role of trustees
6.8 The trustees shall be responsible for the following:
(a) supervise, manage, and administer all property held by the Union pursuant to
the direction of the Officers; and
(b) shall render reports to the directors on the operation, maintenance and safety of
the property.
Removal of Officers
6.9 The directors may by a two-thirds majority vote to remove an Officer from office
for non-performance of their duty or for improper conduct.
Part 7 — Remuneration of Directors and Signing Authority
Remuneration of directors
7.1 Directors are allotted a quarterly remuneration
(a) The remuneration is voted upon annually at the general meeting
(b) Remuneration is based on attendance of 8 of 12 regular meetings
(c) The Board may reimburse a director for reasonable expenses necessarily incurred by
the director in performing his or her duties as a director.
(d) A director may receive remuneration for services provided by the director to the
Union in another capacity.
Signing authority
7.2 A contract or other record to be signed by the Union must be signed on behalf of
the Union
(a) by the chair together with one other director authorized by the Board to sign on
behalf of the Union; or
(b) if the chair is unable to provide a signature, by the treasurer and one other
director authorized by the Board to sign on behalf of the Union; or
(d)in any case, by one or more individuals authorized by the Board to sign the
9
record on behalf of the Union.
Part 8 — Premises
Access to the Premises
8.1 The Union controls all access to the Premises and may suspend or terminate the
access of Lodges or Members at any time for violation of its policies and rules and
(a) includes approval of rental requests and general hall use by the member Lodges and
Individual Members.
Member and sponsor liability
8.2 Members are liable for any damage to the Premises caused by themselves, their
guests, or their non-member invitees. For sponsored events, the event sponsors will be
liable for any damage to the Premises caused by event attendees; and
(a) where event attendees may be non-members, event sponsors are strongly
encouraged to purchase insurance or to obtain proof of adequate insurance for the
event or as the Hall Use Policy dictates;
(b) for sponsored events, the event sponsors will be liable for any damage to the
Premises caused by event attendees;
(c) where event attendees may be non-members, event sponsors are strongly
encouraged to purchase insurance or to obtain proof of adequate insurance for the
event or as the Hall Use Policy dictates;
(d) the Union controls all access to the Premises and may suspend or terminate the
access of Members at any time for violation of its policies and rules.
Part 9- Seal
9.1 The directors may provide for a common seal for the Union and may destroy a seal
and substitute a new seal in its place, and:
(a) the common seal shall be affixed only when authorized by a resolution of the
directors and then only in the presence of the persons prescribed in the resolution,
or if no persons are prescribed, in the presence of the chair and secretary or chair
and secretary-treasurer.
Part 10- Borrowing
10.1 In order to carry out the purposes of the Union the directors may, on behalf of
and in the name of the Union, raise or secure the payment or repayment of money in
10
the manner they decide, and, in particular but without limiting the foregoing, by the
issue of debentures, except:
(a) the directors shall not issue any debenture, mortgage, transfer or sell any
property held by the Union without the sanction of a special resolution; and
(b) the members may by special resolution restrict the borrowing powers of the
directors, but a restriction imposed expires at the next annual general meeting.
Part 11- General
11.1 The following clauses are moved in their entirety from the Union’s previous
constitution and are binding on all members:
(a) In the event that one of the Lodges is dissolved, the members of the dissolved
lodge are no longer members of the Union;
(b) In the event that the Union is wound-up or dissolved for any reason, the assets
remaining after the payment of all debts and liabilities shall be divided equally
between those of Victoria Lodge, No. 1, Independent Order of Oddfellows and
Columbia Lodge, No. 2, Independent Order of Oddfellows who are in existence at
that time and in the event that none of the aforementioned lodges are in existence at
that time then all the assets shall be distributed to the Grand Lodge of British
Columbia.
(e) In voting the expenditure at any meeting, a two-thirds vote of the governing
members shall be necessary to authorize any expenditure above $1000.00 in
amount.
(f)Upon the conveyance, delivery or payment to the Union by either of the said three
Lodges of any real or personal property, a certificate shall be delivered to the Lodge
making such conveyance, delivery or payment, stating the amount of real or
personal property so conveyed, delivered or paid, and such certificate shall be
signed by the President and Secretary of the Union, and shall be under the common
seal of the Society.
(g) In the event of any one or all of the said Lodges surrendering its charter and
effects, the Grand Lodge of British Columbia shall then represent the extinct Lodge
and be entitled to the interest which such extinct Lodge had under the constitution.
(h) Upon the conveyance, delivery or payment to the Society by either of the said
three Lodges of any real or personal property, a certificate shall be delivered to the
Lodge making such conveyance, delivery or payment, stating the amount of real or
personal property so conveyed, delivered or paid, and such certificate shall be
signed by the President and Secretary of the Society, and shall be under the common
11
seal of the Society.
(i) The Society shall hold all property, both real and personal, which may be vested
in them upon trust, to pay and divide the income thereof unto and equally between
the Lodges, to be applied by such Lodges under their respective Constitutions and
Bylaws for charitable purposes.
Part 12 – Notice to Members
12.1: Notice may be given to a Member either personally or by posting on the notice
board of the Lodges, and:
(a) notice may be given to a Lodge by delivery to the chair or secretary of that Lodge.
(b)notice may be given electronically to a Member or Lodge, where the Union has
been provided contact information for electronic delivery and such electronic
delivery will be sufficient for the purposes of these bylaws.
(c) notice shall be given to each member not less than 14 days of the general
meeting.
(d) notice of a general meeting shall be given to Lodge Secretaries for distribution
and posted on a message board.
(e) every member shown on the register of member on the day notice is given; and
no other person is entitled to receive a notice of general meeting.
Bylaws approved on: , 2023
12